docs: v4 subscriber quickstart (#821)
Uniswap/docs: docs/contracts/v4/quickstart/05-subscriber.mdx

---

# Guide

## 1. Implement the [`ISubscriber`](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/blob/main/src/interfaces/ISubscriber.sol) interface

Can also refer to [MockSubscriber](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/blob/main/test/mocks/MockSubscriber.sol) for an actual implementation example.

```solidity
import {ISubscriber} from "v4-periphery/src/interfaces/ISubscriber.sol";

contract MySubscriber is ISubscriber {
    uint256 public notifySubscribeCount;
    uint256 public notifyUnsubscribeCount;
    uint256 public notifyModifyLiquidityCount;
    uint256 public notifyBurnCount;
    // other implementations...

    function notifySubscribe(uint256, bytes memory) external onlyByPosm {
        notifySubscribeCount++;
    }

    function notifyUnsubscribe(uint256) external onlyByPosm {
        notifyUnsubscribeCount++;
    }

    function notifyModifyLiquidity(uint256, int256, BalanceDelta) external onlyByPosm {
        notifyModifyLiquidityCount++;
    }

    function notifyBurn(uint256, address, PositionInfo, uint256, BalanceDelta)
        external
        onlyByPosm
    {
        notifyBurnCount++;
    }
}
```

## 2. A caveat on `unsubscribe()`

> There is a variable [`unsubscribeGasLimit`](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/blob/main/src/base/Notifier.sol#L17) specifically set at deployment of `PositionManager` to prevent gas griefing on `unsubscribe()` - which could result in the subscriber contract not being notified during `unsubscribe()`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a variable [`unsubscribeGasLimit`](/contracts/v4/reference/periphery/interfaces/INotifier#unsubscribegaslimit) specifically set at deployment of `PositionManager` to prevent gas griefing on `unsubscribe()` - which could result in the subscriber contract not being notified during `unsubscribe()`. 
```

If notifying the subscriber contract is not necessary users can still specify a gas limit where `notifyUnsubscribe()` hits `OutOfGas` and reverts yet the unsubscription will still succeed.

From [`_unsubscribe()`](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/blob/main/src/base/Notifier.sol#L80) on `Notifier`:
```solidity
if (address(_subscriber).code.length > 0) {
    // require that the remaining gas is sufficient to notify the subscriber
    // otherwise, users can select a gas limit where .notifyUnsubscribe hits OutOfGas yet the
    // transaction/unsubscription can still succee
    if (gasleft() < unsubscribeGasLimit) GasLimitTooLow.selector.revertWith();
    try _subscriber.notifyUnsubscribe{gas: unsubscribeGasLimit}(tokenId) {} catch {}
}
```

## 3. Opt-in to a subscriber contract

> To opt-in to a subscriber contract, call `subscribe()` on `PositionManager`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To opt-in to a subscriber contract, call [`subscribe()`](/contracts/v4/reference/periphery/interfaces/INotifier#subscribe) on `PositionManager`.
```
